Update the Cumulocity user documentation to include details on the new Certificate Authority feature, covering device registration and CA creation. (#2985)
Cumulocity-IoT/c8y-docs: content/device-integration/certificate-authority-bundle/device-enroll-and-re-enroll.md

---
weight: 25
title: Simple device enrollment
layout: redirect
---

> In this tutorial, you will learn how to create device certificate which is signed by tenant's Certificate Authority(CA) with {{< product-c8y-iot >}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you will learn how to create a device certificate which is signed by a tenant's Certificate Authority (CA) with {{< product-c8y-iot >}}.
```

### Prerequisites {#prerequisites}

In order to follow this tutorial, check the following prerequisites:

* You have a valid tenant, a user and a password in order to access {{< product-c8y-iot >}}.

> * Certificate Authority (CA) is already created for this tenant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A Certificate Authority (CA) is already created for this tenant.
```

> On creating a new device certificate the device enroll API is called. This triggers the following actions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Enroll a device certificate {#enroll-a-device-certificate}

On creating a new device certificate the Device enroll API is called. This triggers the following actions:
```

> * Device enroll API to be used by a device to get a fresh new certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The Device enroll API is used by a device to get a fresh new certificate.
```

* If no CA is available an error will be returned.
* If the request does not contain a valid [CertificateSigningRequest](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Certificate_signing_request)

> This is example of REST request:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is an example of a REST request:
```

        g0IjLz5VGNfsNUw+51KI7Tcc1SunHvUKD7TtgZ4rVga5q1DFxmzZ/dFXJpG5VAgu
        pwojACMv+T6qKGlUsF5F/1coOVrUo26aby4mg7C6ZsbwzXj2PbIvNXHCcrBrUU7S
        L2EI89RTgFZCVnZtW1SozDBn8S+WafKFBSgD0GwNtAkkffNWji1fW645gDc80u7w
        bQuA/xtPXK6+giGB8jN3daVjp6pzbzrYzDTYoC2vyL2A4F4zUedBhwIDAQABo4H6
        MIH3MAkGA1UdEwQCMAAwEQYJYIZIAYb4QgEBBAQDAgWgMDMGCWCGSAGG+EIBDQQm
        FiRPcGVuU1NMIEdlbmVyYXRlZCBDbGllbnQgQ2VydGlmaWNhdGUwHQYDVR0OBBYE
        FONhE6IdItEwn95lmf7uKjVLYpJ1MB8GA1UdIwQYMBaAFFSopCQWaJLzT3DYQi8n
        +nA1S86RMA4GA1UdDwEB/wQEAwIF4DAdBgNVHSUEFjAUBggrBgEFBQcDAgYIKwYB
        BQUHAwEwMwYDVR0fBCwwKjAooCagJIYiaHR0cDovL2xvY2FsaG9zdDoxNTAwMC9v
        bmxpbmUtY3JsczANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQsFAAOCAQEAJmPPKVSR4nAf8TZG3dPeGRX4
        V6a8mT52HKQYTilicq0cwec1zSyjayX6lsvqbENkA/L8fN64fpOSmb/+HUbSWP7Y
        F3ZYKalZVS9XlDUz6TWSA1LiWiDx1E28W2ubCOzUBRg7ux+59hoSGldtGrpxZ1Ox
        +H9kemart76xC+l85EYys7YARL5vk5Jwyr/f1/FpXasaGBFbC4aJ+2fNJkn1LJal
        II8Fl3GElheLpYM20VNw2J0PoD8I17htLfT+j7IwPyJ+uZcNxl60GiqDoBafRWuq
        oTL1SYqewv/dTU98aZUXG9yFLPgldQ2YfMli6vOC2gcjW2vun+IP7T/5ZU/xtA==
        -----END CERTIFICATE-----
    }

> ### Re-Issue device certificate {#re-issue-device-certificate}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Re-enroll device certificate {#re-issue-device-certificate}
```

> Device re-enroll API to be used by a device to renew its certificate or to substitute for a certificate its current credentials (being a password or a certificate generated by another CA). The device has to authenticate itself using its password or a JWT token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Device re-enroll API is used by a device to renew its certificate or to substitute the current credentials for a certificate (a password or a certificate generated by another CA). The device has to authenticate itself using its password or a JWT token.
```

---
weight: 25
title: Simple device enrollment
layout: redirect
---

In this tutorial, you will learn how to create a device certificate which is signed by a tenant's Certificate Authority (CA) with {{< product-c8y-iot >}}.

### Prerequisites {#prerequisites}

In order to follow this tutorial, check the following prerequisites:

* You have a valid tenant, a user and a password in order to access {{< product-c8y-iot >}}.
* A Certificate Authority (CA) is already created for this tenant.

### Enroll a device certificate {#enroll-a-device-certificate}

On creating a new device certificate the Device enroll API is called. This triggers the following actions:

* The Device enroll API is used by a device to get a fresh new certificate.
* If no CA is available an error will be returned.

> * If the request does not contain a valid [CertificateSigningRequest](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Certificate_signing_request)

Reviewer: @pans-c8y This sentence seems to be incomplete

Author: Done

        g0IjLz5VGNfsNUw+51KI7Tcc1SunHvUKD7TtgZ4rVga5q1DFxmzZ/dFXJpG5VAgu
        pwojACMv+T6qKGlUsF5F/1coOVrUo26aby4mg7C6ZsbwzXj2PbIvNXHCcrBrUU7S
        L2EI89RTgFZCVnZtW1SozDBn8S+WafKFBSgD0GwNtAkkffNWji1fW645gDc80u7w
        bQuA/xtPXK6+giGB8jN3daVjp6pzbzrYzDTYoC2vyL2A4F4zUedBhwIDAQABo4H6
        MIH3MAkGA1UdEwQCMAAwEQYJYIZIAYb4QgEBBAQDAgWgMDMGCWCGSAGG+EIBDQQm
        FiRPcGVuU1NMIEdlbmVyYXRlZCBDbGllbnQgQ2VydGlmaWNhdGUwHQYDVR0OBBYE
        FONhE6IdItEwn95lmf7uKjVLYpJ1MB8GA1UdIwQYMBaAFFSopCQWaJLzT3DYQi8n
        +nA1S86RMA4GA1UdDwEB/wQEAwIF4DAdBgNVHSUEFjAUBggrBgEFBQcDAgYIKwYB
        BQUHAwEwMwYDVR0fBCwwKjAooCagJIYiaHR0cDovL2xvY2FsaG9zdDoxNTAwMC9v
        bmxpbmUtY3JsczANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQsFAAOCAQEAJmPPKVSR4nAf8TZG3dPeGRX4
        V6a8mT52HKQYTilicq0cwec1zSyjayX6lsvqbENkA/L8fN64fpOSmb/+HUbSWP7Y
        F3ZYKalZVS9XlDUz6TWSA1LiWiDx1E28W2ubCOzUBRg7ux+59hoSGldtGrpxZ1Ox
        +H9kemart76xC+l85EYys7YARL5vk5Jwyr/f1/FpXasaGBFbC4aJ+2fNJkn1LJal
        II8Fl3GElheLpYM20VNw2J0PoD8I17htLfT+j7IwPyJ+uZcNxl60GiqDoBafRWuq
        oTL1SYqewv/dTU98aZUXG9yFLPgldQ2YfMli6vOC2gcjW2vun+IP7T/5ZU/xtA==
        -----END CERTIFICATE-----
    }

> ### Re-enroll device certificate {#re-issue-device-certificate}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Re-enroll a device certificate {#re-issue-device-certificate}
```

---
weight: 25
title: Simple device enrollment
layout: redirect
---

In this tutorial, you will learn how to create a device certificate which is signed by a tenant's Certificate Authority (CA) with {{< product-c8y-iot >}} using the existing [bulk device registration](/device-management-application/registering-devices/#bulk-device-registration).

> Some changes made in CSV for bulk device registration for enrollment list.

Reviewer: Don´t understand this sentence. Is this needed/relevant for users?

Author: Done

The CSV files must contain at least the **ID** as device identifier, **AUTH_TYPE** as `CERTIFICATES` and **ENROLLMENT_OTP** as one time password of the devices.
In addition to these columns the file can also contain other columns like ICCID, NAME, TYPE as shown in the following example:

```
ID;TYPE;NAME;ICCID;IDTYPE;PATH;SHELL;AUTH_TYPE;ENROLLMENT_OTP
006064ce800a;c8y_Device;Sample_Device1;+491555555;c8y_Serial;bulk group/subgroup1;1;CERTIFICATES;somePassword@123
006064ce8077;c8y_Device;Sample_Device2;+491555555;c8y_Serial;bulk group/subgroup2;1;CERTIFICATES;password@345
```

> * These EST devices will be added to the NewDeviceRegistration list, with their status set to Accepted.

Reviewer: What dies EST stand for?

Author: EST (Enrollment Over Secure Transport) https://www.sectigo.com/resource-library/what-is-enrollment-over-secure-transport

Reviewer 2: by the way, is `/NewDeviceRegistration` correct endpoint? While I am adding devices via API, `/bulkNewDeviceRequests` is called for single registration and bulk registration option:
![2275](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/438a0702-1903-4e8f-b864-3504038624d3)

Author: Done

> * These enrollment otp act as temporary device user credentials, which will be used for authentication when calling the `/.well-known/est/simpleenroll` endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* These enrollment OTPs (one time passwords) act as temporary device user credentials, which are used for authentication when calling the `/.well-known/est/simpleenroll` endpoint.
```

* This enhancement simplifies the enrollment process for multiple devices, ensuring a seamless and secure onboarding experience.

### Prerequisites {#prerequisites}

In order to follow this tutorial, check the following prerequisites:

* You have a valid tenant, a user and a password in order to access {{< product-c8y-iot >}}.
* A Certificate Authority (CA) is already created for this tenant.

### Enroll a device certificate {#enroll-a-device-certificate}

On creating a new device certificate the Device enroll API is called. This triggers the following actions:

* The Device enroll API is used by a device to get a fresh new certificate.

> * If no CA is available an error will be returned.

Reviewer 2: trivial: maybe is it worth to mention what kind of error is expected to be returned (expected message or / and status)?

Author: Done

> * If the request does not contain a valid [CertificateSigningRequest](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Certificate_signing_request) error will be returned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If the request does not contain a valid [CertificateSigningRequest](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Certificate_signing_request) an error will be returned.
```
